In this lesson, we'll create a custom contact page using a block pattern provided by the theme and
style it to match the look and feel of the site.
You'll activate a forms plug in and add a contact form, embedding it on the page using a short code
block by the end of this video.
You'll learn how to install a working contact form and modify the layout of a page using the Block editor.
Let's create another custom page.
How about a contact page for this website?
If we go into dashboard, you could go to pages, add new and we'll put a title.
Just contact should be fine and click Publish.
And let's just take a look at what that page is going to look like.
With the default template we'll have.
It'll have a under permalink.
I could just click right there to open a new tab.
You know, have the standard header and the standard footer and then contact with a divider and then
some contact content in white.
So that looks good.
Let's see what the block patterns.
Are available to us.
Let's see some pages.
Yes, different page types here.
We could use a different color.
Some about page links.
It looks nice.
Page layout with image and text.
Yeah, this has.
Some images that match there's some there's a large image and buttons almost think the page layout with
image and text might be a nice looking layout for a contact page.
Sure.
What about text?
Let's see.
See what text layouts we have.
There's some columns.
His image and quote on a background.
Image on a solid color with the description over on the right hand side.
We could do that, you know, a nice image on the left hand side with the contact form on the right.
Something like that.
Let's check that one out.
So that's under the text pattern.
Before we do that, though, let's look at featured to see what else we have available to us.
There's a large a wide image with there's an introduction and then there's some buttons there.
Just taking a look at all the black patterns available to me here inside the 2022 theme.
There's that image on the solid color.
And a simple call to action.
All right, I'm going to choose that image with a solid color image on a solid color.
And then some text over here on the right hand side.
I'll update that.
Next, we're going to want to replace or add a contact form near this text block over here.
Maybe we have the text block at the top and then the contact form below, but it looks like this is
a column layout right here.
Let's see this that's that has two columns.
And then here is there's a paragraph and another paragraph.
Let's take a look at what we're looking at here.
So there's a single column that's right here and that has two paragraph blocks within it, and it's
got a specific column width.
So that'll be nice for for a contact form.
Often when you put a contact form on a full page, those fields don't look as good when they stretch
across the whole page like that.
So a contact form is something that is functionality and not visual design.
And so we'll need to use a plug in to insert a contact form here and then make sure it's working.
So let's get started with that.
And while we're here, we could just edit a little bit of the text here for the contact form.
But should we put here, it's just a little heading in bold.
So.
Just contact information and then here might look best if you have.
When we go.
All right, so we have a nice text block there.
He put a call in here.
And what is maybe just below we could have the contact form there.
It looks pretty good.
Let's see what else.
Maybe make this a little bit bigger by using the typography information.
Why does this look smaller right here?
Let's see.
This stuff.
Have that says to and then this one size to.
Here we go.
And now with the line height.
Yeah.
Like tightening that up a little bit.
Let's see.
What else we have in here?
OK, so is this is a.
Single paragraph.
Oops!
There's a paragraph the line on this paragraph is point five.
But this paragraph doesn't give us a line, right?
Maybe we need.
So there's a custom size.
OK.
That was at one point five by default.
We open up.
Here we go.
Under typography, you can open up the line height settings for any of these text blocks.
Oh, one point five, that looks fine.
All right, so let's go ahead and update that.
And what to do next is to go back to the dashboard.
So we've got this contact page and let's go into plug ins and let's activate the fluid forms plug in.
This is a great free forms plug in that's easy to use and go into fluent forms new form.
And we can use a pre-made template like contact form, which is easy to use.
So let's create that form.
We'll see how this ends up looking on the page.
But what is his first name?
Last name, email has a required asterisk, as well as message and the submit form.
And so it's a contact form.
Of course, you need an email and a message, so we could say save form right here.
And we can set up the settings in the integrations later.
These would be, you know, the form settings.
What happens after someone submits the message?
They open up a message right here, right on the page?
Or do you send them to another page or even to a custom URL off site?
It's up to you.
And then after the four form submission, do you reset the form or hide the form?
You know, let's see what it looks like to hide the form.
That's the default layout.
And then there's a lot of different layout options right here that you can play with and different options
within the fluent form.
Plug in, and so let's save the settings right here.
Let's just go down through these and look at what will happen.
So the email notifications, the admin wants to get notified when this form gets submitted, most likely.
And so let's enable the admin notification email and we can duplicate.
You can change the settings for what you want to happen and what that email looks like.
You want the the emails coming in to you, to the administrator, and you know what is in the email
body here, those types of things you just hit back.
You could also check this in the trash if you want to, but we've enabled that.
And then there's other confirmations.
For example, you could add an email that gets sent to the user to say, here's what you submitted so
that they have that on file as their contact form.
And then, of course, there's custom design with CSS and JavaScript, or even marketing and CRM integrations
that you could add, like having that go to your your MailChimp email list or something like that.
And so that's something that we can look at later.
But as far as the form itself, these are the settings and then entries would be one great thing about
fluent forms is that it saves the data that's sent in the database so you can go and open up all the
form submissions inside your website so you don't have to save them or try to find them in your email
program later on.
But for now, let's embed this form on our contact page to see what it looks like.
So this is a short code, you know, code for different functionality within the contact form plug in
or any other kind of plug in might use your codes.
They can be inserted anywhere in WordPress, on a page or on a post.
I just clicked it, said, copied to Clipboard.
So then we'll go back into our pages.
All pages open up the contact page.
And then over here, really just below in this area here, let's see exactly where we want to put it
in this single column.
I would like to add a block.
And if you just start typing shortcode, there is a shortcut block.
You can just control V to paste and update that.
And then let's take a look.
I just go over here.
Actually, I have it open in another tab, still.
So if I refresh the page now, we've got that full width image and contact information and then that
form.
Nice.
It's definitely style able.
We could change the color of the button.
This is looking a little narrow in this column for me where this comes out to the left hand side.
You might want to change the column widths a little bit.
Maybe let's go back to.
The editing page here, and this would add a column in between, but let's see if we want to edit the
columns just a little bit.
So this column here?
Here's the set of columns.
Let's see this column over here.
Oh, that's the cover image.
This is a set of columns right here.
Now it's a two column layout.
Right.
And let's see what other kinds of edits we can make here.
So if we want this to be a little wider, potentially this cover image this this column, I could say
width.
Do I want it to be 50 percent?
Maybe I want it to be a little bit less.
This column right here doesn't have a width.
It'll do the rest of it.
So let's bring this column down just a little bit.
Let's bring it down to maybe about 30 percent.
No, that's not.
Let's do 40 percent click Update, and we'll see what that looks like on the contact page.
Oh, nice.
Actually brought it back, and then this one's still a little bit narrow, so that didn't really work.
Let's make this this column here.
I can see, OK, there's column width here.
This column, if we make that 60 percent.
Oh, sixty pixels now we want to make that percent.
And I think I'm working with the wrong column here.
So we have that column.
Let's bring this back to where it was, and then there's an inner column set right here.
And with the dimensions, we have margin and block spacing.
And what about this inner column?
There we go.
It's a fixed width column settings 320 pixels.
Why don't we make this 60 percent?
Is that going to work now that 60 percent of this content area?
So if we make it pixels and instead of 60 pixels, it was 320, maybe that will make it 400.
Maybe let's make it 500.
And then.
Go ahead and refresh the page and see what that looks like.
Much better, so I might go back to 50 percent here on this column.
Instead of 40 percent.
Let's update that.
That'll bring this line out to halfway in between.
And I just let the form extend out just a little bit, so that looks great.
Yeah.
And this is an example of where I might want to get rid of this dividing line or separator.
Um, and to do that, really what I might want to do is just go to the page and instead of using the
default template, let's use a no separators template.
See how that changes things for us.
Yeah, that's a little bit better.
Just brought it up just a little bit.
So we have contact information, address, phone number and then our form there, and we could test
that.
Awesome.